greetings all you worldly fascinating
and good-looking listeners Laszlo
Montgomery here coming to you via the
China history podcast calm we're running
a little later than usual sorry about
that I'm a little busy these days
and just got the call to come out to
Ningbo mid-august so busy preparing for
that after looking back on last week's
intro to Taoism I really think I gave
short shrift to Duong su and didn't give
him his due so today we're going to
focus in on him for the first part of
the podcast and then we'll continue to
examine a little more of the history of
Taoism specifically what is referred to
as the Classical period of Taoism that
pretty much ran from the Han to the Tong
I thought we might look at the various
Taoist gods but I'm pretty sure that's
gonna have to wait until next week not
including Lisa who frankly doesn't get
as much mention except in some sources
the two main guys of Taoism are Lao Tzu
and trongsa the works attributed to them
are called the lotsa and the trongsa
just like their name which I guess makes
them eponymous the louts is better known
as the daodejing and the trongsa is
known as the trongsa and sometimes
referred to as the second book of the
doll these are the two core books that
make up the earliest works of Taoism for
Taoism this is the holiest of holies
trongsa lived around 369 to 286 BC this
puts him smack dab in the middle of the
warring States Period he was born Gwang
Jo Jo was his given name as the story
goes although by this time the dynasty
is finished in all these feudal kingdoms
large and small are all during the
warring States Period trying to bump
each other off drugs ax is a
contemporary of months of aka monk chess
the best known of the disciples of
Confucius Confucius himself has already
been gone for a century by the time
trunks that comes along so you can see
although Taoism got the initial head
start
it wasn't by much and what happens is
these two religions sort of grow up and
evolve in China side-by-side in both
religions I can't stress how much their
impact was on Chinese history and
culture in many ways large and small
trongsa came from on kwai province from
the town of mung Chun back then this was
the warring state of song which was
partly in phone on and on clay we know
about Duong 'aa the same way we know
about loud sir and a cast of thousands
we know about him and his background
from of course who else but somach yen
in his sure gee or records of the grand
historian
thank goodness for somach yen hey the
man gets me my best material so my Chen
said that trongsa worked in a so-called
lacquer garden but there's no
explanation as to what exactly was a
lacquer guard he completely rejected a
life in government despite his renowned
as a man of letters the great work that
trongsa is credited with writing or at
least partially writing it has a total
of 33 chapters broken down into three
parts it's the first part the first
seven chapters that are specifically
credited to master Duan these are known
as the inner chapters the nape in the
next 15 chapters are known as the outer
chapters the balanced eleven are known
as the mixed chapters
it said Duong zja himself wrote the
inner chapters and his disciples wrote
the outer chapters and the mixed
chapters were written by various others
scholars generally agree the inner
chapters the first seven were written by
a single person whether or not it was
drawn his own brushstrokes that wrote
the original is still open for debate
like just about everything from these
ancient days who knows 1000 years from
now historians will have no need to
speculate what was going on in the 21st
century we are a well documented world
but prior to the age of electronics and
the ability to store and sort data
electronically and especially pre
Gutenberg
we have writing on basically organic
substrates that are fragile and decay
with age so again loud sad wanza were
taking somach yen's word for it that
they were who they were the shirt chi
but last I checked didn't come with a
bibliography unfortunately so we don't
know if trongsa wrote the first seven
chapters or even one sentence of the
work that bears his name any more than
we know if the daodejing was written by
lotsa you don't have to read the trunks
in any particular order it's a mishmash
of wisdom and you could pick it up and
read random passages of stories and
sayings and you'll be fine the various
chapters more or less fall into one of
three categories the first involve
stories where'd Wong's a spar is
verbally with his sidekicks someone
named Kwai sure it's a noted Sophists of
his day you have these Abbot and
Costello debates between Kwai sure and
twangs aware trongsa turns logic on its
head or the stories have to do with his
contempt and disdain for governments of
all kind or they often concern
themselves with death as part of the
universal process this work from a
Chinese translation point of view is not
an easy one indeed it's filled with all
kinds of fanciful words and has all
kinds of fun with Chinese characters
which are the stuff of double entendre
ISM playful meanings and sometimes
impossible to translate like almost
anything it's really not the same what
you're reading it in translation so many
subtleties in the language are
impossible to put into words I've read
it I've read it in translation it wasn't
written inconvenient vernacular Chinese
not that it would be any easier for me
either it's written in this whole
classical Chinese script the one yen
when yours truly can read most of the
characters but overall it's all Greek to
me so I can only make sense of it if I
read it in English and when I say make
sense of it I mean that term loosely I
mean what can I say I'm a history lover
and the philosophy and the
lives of the great philosophers has
interested me it didn't reach the same
level of passion as the historical
aspects to me it's all about in general
what did these philosophers do that
influenced history or the culture of a
civilization I can't really boast that I
was one to read the fine print which
explains why I went into business and
not academia I guess let's look at some
of the passages of the trunk so I'll
read two or three and if you've never
read it before you'll get it I guess the
most famous passage is in the outer
chapters chapter fourteen to be exact
this concerns a dream that Towanda had
this is like his signature passage from
the Towanda that you'll read most often
it went like this
formerly I Tuan Co remember his first
name was Joe dreamt that I was a
butterfly a butterfly flying about
feeling that it was enjoying itself I
did not know that it was Joe suddenly I
awoke and was myself again the veritable
Joe I did not know whether it had
formerly been Joe dreaming that he was a
butterfly or it was now a butterfly
dreaming that it was Joe but between Joe
and a butterfly there must be a
difference this is a case of what is
called the transformation of things this
sort of gives you a little taste of John
saw his writing is sometimes irreverent
but almost always skeptical believing
nothing questioning every kind of
accepted belief about life death good
and bad it's filled with fables and
stories that stimulate your mind to
rethink some things and laugh at some of
the reasoning behind accepted beliefs it
attempts to answer questions that are
both philosophical and intellectual like
the daodejing the Kwanzaa the second
book of the DAO whatever it's freely
available from several websites both
with the Chinese characters and without
some websites also have commentary this
last of the three great original sacred
texts of Taoism like the daodejing
has a lesson or three contained inside
for almost
anyone here's a couple passages from the
trunk so that gives you an idea how he
keeps pounding home the message don't be
so sure what you know is right consider
shoe his chin is down by his
navel his shoulders stick up above his
head the bones at the base of his neck
point to the sky the five pipes of his
spine are on top his two thighs form
ribs yet by sewing and washing he is
able to fill his mouth by shaking the
fortune-telling sticks he earns enough
to feed ten when the authorities draft
soldiers a can walk among them
confidently flapping his sleeves when
they are conscripted workgangs cripples
are excused because of their infirmity
when the authorities give relief grain
to the ailing a gets three
measures along with bundles of firewood
thus one whose form is crippled can
nurture his body and live out the years
heaven grants him think what he can do
if his virtue was crippled too now this
especially has poignancy when you look
at it in the context of the times in
most modernized countries where there's
some semblance of democracy last time I
checked no one had to be worried that
they'd be picked off the street or out
of their homes to go build a great wall
somewhere or dig ditches or build dikes
or work on some egomaniacs tomb or go
fight a war someplace unpleasant but in
those days that was a real concern among
the populace that was that was an
everyday thing to stress out over that
is unless you were you know a part of
the cream of society or an elite but you
know their elites because there aren't
so many of them everyone else if you
were may all that is had to be wary that
one day you could be irrigating a field
and the next day you're on your way to
the frontier to go face off against
these fierce brutal killing machines
from Central Asia
so that little passage says what it says
in this context another one goes like
this rout of heaven roamed on the south
side of mount vast when he came to the
banks of Clare stream he
nameless man and asked him please tell
me how to manage the world go away you
dunce nameless man said such questions
are no fun I was just about to join the
creator of things and if I get bored
with that I'll climb on the bird merges
with the sky and soar beyond the six
directions I'll visit nothing whatever
town and stay in boundless country why
do you bring up managing the world to
disturb my thoughts still root of heaven
repeated his question and nameless man
responded let your mind wander among the
insipid blend your energies with the
featureless spontaneously accord with
things and you will have no room for
selfishness then the world will be in
order
alright one more and then we'll move on
when trongsa was about to die his
disciples wanted to bury him in a
well-appointed tomb Kwanza said I have
the sky in the earth for inner and outer
coffins the Sun and the moon for Jade
discs the stars for pearls and the ten
thousand things for farewell gifts isn't
the paraphernalia for my burial adequate
without adding anything oh but we were
afraid the crows and the kites will eat
you Master a disciple said above ground
I will be eaten by crows and kites below
ground by ants you are robbing from the
one to give to the other why play
favorites how can you not love it this
guy was writing these words 2,300 years
ago and then last week you'll recall
Taoism sort of percolates for the next
few hundred years and survives the very
oppressive years of the Ching dynasty
and then before you know it here comes
the Han and along comes joong-dal Ling
who sets up the tea ensured of the way
of the celestial master and from here on
out there's no stopping Taoism at least
for the time being a whole number of
sects will proliferate all having the
name the way of da-da-da-da-da-da-da you
know whatever way of this the way of
that way means dock so it was always
something or other doll around this time
the function
proliferated you have these Taoist
practitioners of all kinds of Alchemy's
astrology divination feng shui
necromancy and all the different manners
of magic these were the guys I don't
know if you remember when Qi Chuang sent
these guys out and a Mission Impossible
wants to go retrieve this elixir of life
and they never returned and this led to
the whole burning of the books and
burying the scholar incidents those were
punctured no real way to translate that
that's what you call these masters of
these Taoist black arts if you need to
exercise a ghost
you call your fungal shirt these guys
are still around today peddling their
services as Fung Shui masters and
whatnot and practitioners of the ancient
arts these functional deep it was like
bringing a lobbyist into Washington DC
they really thrived and the great Han
rule D patronized them like crazy and
was a generous sponsor to promote the
study and compilation of Taoist
teachings a lot of the practices of some
of the founders were absorbed into some
of these different Taoist sects so it's
during the Han the Western Han 206 BC to
akd that these finally sure these I
guess you could call them alchemists who
they they commingled all folk rituals
and medicine and local traditions with
the Taoist works of loud
drunks and letsa so Taoism by this time
is taken on a shape that is now much
more approachable to the people by the
end of the Han Dynasty it's been juiced
up with all kinds of traditions beliefs
and gods of every kind of Majan about
and then as I said Jung toweling comes
around in 142 AD during the period of
the Eastern Han and now we see Taoism is
a full-fledged religion competing with
the best of them and during the eastern
han lhasa is given divine status for the
first time by the emperor so imagine the
possibilities
during the eastern han 68 AD during the
reign of Han Kuang rule Buddhism start
to make inroads into China the first
temple the white horse temple the by
masa is built in law yang and here at by
my suit is considered the the cradle of
Buddhism in China
Taoism keeps on evolving and spreads
throughout China the next milestone in
the history of Taoism in China concerned
the yellow turbans perhaps you remember
them from the Han Dynasty part three
podcast CHP number twenty we mentioned
these guys and the Yellow Turban
rebellion the one ginger lot this
perhaps more than anything sort of
provided the tipping point for the
fortunes of the Eastern Han this
rebellion lasted two decades from 184 to
205 these were the the three Jong
brothers who started the whole thing
they were all Taoist healers and
itinerant practitioners of the
particular arts and traditions that by
now the law by Shing had become enamored
with they were the ones who launched
this rebellion they were in deep with
the Taiping thought the way of the
supreme peace in this Yellow Turban
rebellion we see Taoist forces as
something to be reckoned with and this
won't be the last time you'll see mobs
of fanatical and devoted followers
wallowing in their misery out the
countryside who embrace a charismatic
leader and bring all manners of bad
karma to the rulers Confucianism great
triumph came when the thought was
embraced fully by the Han rulers but now
we see as the Han falls to the wayside
Confucianism has a sort of retrenchment
and we'll see Taoism come to the fore
and these unsettled times in between the
Han and the sway the next big milestone
in the history of Taoism involves Wong
beat and neo Taoism this period was
third to sixth century AD a period of
disunity in China where you had the
three kingdoms the eastern and western
Jin and then the southern and northern
dynasties Wang be lived a short life 226
to 249 this was right at the start of
the Three Kingdoms period
neo taoism big thing was to reconcile
Confucianism and Daoism that's all want
beaze contribution to Taoism
particularly to neo Taoism is great it
was his commentary his interpretation of
the daodejing that became the industry
standard all the way up to the discovery
of the melambe texts in 1973 for 17th
centuries Wong B's work on the daodejing
and also the eating which we'll discuss
another day was the most accepted and
popular version what were the ma long
pay tax
now if there's a story that goes with
this let me first just say the first
time I went to see the mob want a tax
was in 1990
maybe 91 not sure back in those days I
was living in Hong Kong and working for
a factory that did a lot of business of
one of the state-owned import-export
corporations and in Changsha in Hunan so
I was constantly back and forth between
Hong Kong and Changsha always stayed at
the Wat en Hotel which was the only game
in town back in the early 90s so our
hosts took us to the Hunan provincial
museum on one of these trips and they
proudly showed us the riches found at
the Malay excavation proudly showed us
the artifacts on display discovered
locally back in 1973 and I didn't know
then what I know now so the significance
was lost on me at the time there were
three tombs excavated a husband wife and
they believe a son they were from the
Western hunt during the time of Han
Wendy
it was an amazing find and they only 38
years ago they found it the wife lady
died she was so well-preserved in her
tomb that they were in modern times
still able to do an autopsy on her in
one of the three tombs they discovered a
treasure of texts including complete
copies of the eaching and daodejing
the earliest copies ever as well as a
copy of the chanc Watsa or strategies of
the warring States much more was found
in addition to this everything was
printed on silk and the entire day of
the discovery of these
came to be known as the Mwangi borshu
the I want a subtext
they gave new insight after so many
years into Chinese science and math
military strategy mapmaking as well as
all six of the classic arts of ritual
music archery horsemanship arithmetic
and writing so once the Malang de texts
were found it sort of stole some of the
limelight from one beat
but you see during this time Taoism is
continuing to evolve as a religion as a
philosophy and now a lot of these Fong
shares are thick with politicians and
those associated with the seat of power
we see the rise of new sects that become
very big and powerful this is the
Classical period of Taoism basically
starting with joong-dal Ling and
culminating in the tang dynasty this is
the period this classical Taoist period
where all the texts the practices and
rituals are all developed as I said
early in the Eastern Han Eastern Han
Dynasty Buddhism came to China during
this Classical period and these two
sometimes bitter rivals Taoism and
Buddhism they began to take from each
other and mold some of the aspects of
the other's beliefs into their own
religions so amidst the competition
there's also a high degree of engagement
and working together but still the
market for adherents in China was a
limitless one and Buddhists competed
neck and neck with a Taoist the Daoists
would comb through the cities towns and
countryside
perhaps tout the effectiveness of their
spells their potions that gave long life
or immortality and abilities to perform
better exorcisms and control the nature
gods in the Buddhists they would you
know scoff at this and say you know
there are principles were much loftier
and their way was a safer route to
salvation and of course the Buddhist
concepts of rebirth was always an
excellent selling point in the final
analysis although both are still very
firmly entrenched in society if the
number of adherents and temples as any
indication you might be able to conclude
Buddhism one of the Olympics of
religions in China now Taoism caught
many a break since the time of the
Western Han but it was during the Tang
Dynasty that they really hit the big
time and became the official state
religion of China the founder of the
Tong lien - sort of puffs himself up and
add to his legitimacy he claimed he was
a descendant of loud sir so we'll see
Taoist begin to win their way through
the whole tong imperial court and
they'll become part of a system it was
during the Shenzhen Emperor where the
Tong reached its peak and went all ism
then became the official state religion
of China the great Shen song Emperor he
of the Yan qui fais fame he was a very
big time taoist he had many of the
various Taoist sects and movements all
combined into a single Taoist umbrella
this was in the 8th century if you
remember from an earlier podcast the
Empress woods of 10 she was the only
exception to the Tong ruler she was a
devout Buddhist and totally embraced
Buddhism over Taoism she was devout I
guess except for all the people she had
killed but other than that half century
that she had power in varying degrees
the Taoist held sway in the Tong
imperial court after the Tong dynasty I
guess you could say the Taoist never
again rose to such power and throughout
the subsequent dynasties the song UN
main Ching and into the present day
Taoism has survived and today it's one
of the five officially recognized
religions in China and there are people
the world over who practiced Taoism to
one degree or another
it was around 400 AD or there abouts
that the first dal sung was compiled the
dog song this was a collection an
official collection of everything there
was that was ever written or had to do
with Taoism the first time they did this
there were about 1,200 Scrolls of wisdom
including of course the loud said
answer lead sir the second time they
compiled a new official doubt song was
during the Tang Dynasty in 748 this
again was during the reign of Taoism
greatest champion the Shandong Emperor
then in 1016 during the Song Dynasty the
third thoughts on came out which
improved upon the second and called it
of many texts that were taken out that
have been put in during the tongue and
then in 1444 during the Ming Dynasty we
have the last and final version and
there's about five thousand Scrolls that
make up this final version of Taoism
most sacred and important texts I think
we're gonna stop a little earlier than
usual I guess by now you've all noticed
I like to keep these episodes at about
thirty minutes I still want to take a
look at all the main Taoist gods the
three purities the Jade Emperor Queen
Mother of the West the four heavenly
Emperor's you name it we'll explore them
all a promise we'll look at Newton bean
and all of the eight immortals and sort
out which one is which we'll also look
at other sacred stuff like the five
Great mountains of Taoism that will yeah
so that's all for next week and we'll
wind up this little overview of Taoism
and we'll do the same thing later on for
Confucianism and Buddhism in China I
sure am getting a lot of mail asking me
to start the dang Cultural Revolution
already that seems to be quite the
popular topic I already did the Great
Leap Forward and if you remember way way
back in the beginning I did an episode
on the so called godfather of the
Cultural Revolution mouths favorite
henchman Kang Chun I think before we
explore the Cultural Revolution we need
to first look at the 50s and some of the
milestones and the People's Republic of
China's first decade so that's coming up
soon anyways I hope you all enjoyed that
as the great one professor Bob might say
the new China history podcast website
but I promised you a long time ago it's
almost ready for its unveiling hang in
there just a little bit longer look for
me on Twitter although honestly I'm more
of a follower than a tweeter this is
Laszlo Montgomery once again
wishing you all the finest of farewells
and my eternal thanks for listening to
this episode join us next week won't you
for another exciting episode of the
China history podcast